---
layout: minutes
title: 2024-12-06
date: "2024-12-06T15:00:00"
location: 39 Alpha Research Office
purpose: 1st Quarter Board Meeting
attendees:
  - Tucker Ely
  - Cole Mathis
  - Douglas Moore
adjourned:
  by: Tucker Ely
  at: 16:11
submitted: Douglas Moore
---

# Reading of the Minutes

Douglas Moore read the minutes from the 2024-07-03 meeting.

# Long-term Planning for Dorothy and Eleanor

## Discussion

* Do we wish to persue additional funding for continued development of Dorothy?
  - Further development of Dorothy will require additional time commitment
    that is not justifiable with our current staffing and time commitments.
  - Possibile Future Approaches:
    1. Apply for additional funding and hire a lead developer to complete
       development. Partner with a company or individual who can start and run
       a company which 39 Alpha Research will hold a stake in.
    2. Maintain through the duration of our NASA commitment and then archive
       the project.

* How will handle Eleanor Advanced use by 39 Alpha Solutions?
  - At the moment, we are uncertain about how to handle the intellectual
    property rights or how licensing could work. We need to talk to Othon
    Monteiro at the DOE for guidance.

## Action Items

| Action Item                      | Person Responsible |
|----------------------------------|--------------------|
| Reach out to Othon to discuss IP | Tucker Ely         |

# Status Update for Current Funding

## Discussion

* ARPA-E has been reimbursing in a timely fashion.
  - We want to hire someone part-time to do direct work. Tucker will reach out
    to Everett Shock to inquire about prospective hires.
* We have 50hr worth of funds left on the Dorothy grant ending March 31, 2025.

## Action Items

| Action Item                                  | Person Responsible |
|----------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| Reach out to E. Shock for prospective hires. | Tucker Ely         |

# Prospective Funding Opportunities

## Discussion

* The SMART H2 proposal is under review after our response to the first round
  of reviews.
* A NASA Exobiology proposal is in prepration.
* Tucker will be contributing to a NASA ICAR proposal.

# Next Meeting's Agenda (2024-03-07)

