---
title: Five Differentiators
menu:
    main:
        parent: "What is 39Alpha?"
        weight: 1
---

# Team Driven
Research at 39Alpha is conducted by teams of five (four Ph.D's and one part-time freshman
undergraduate student), and is published as such. There are no individual authors. The reputation of
the team (and its members) are one. We believe that the modern publication paradigm centered on
individual authorship actively incentivizes behavior that, while necessarily beneficial to
individual careers, hampers scientific progress. Modern researchers compete with one another in ways
that dissuade unfettered collaboration, information sharing, trust, and efficient divisions of
labor. By shifting the publication unit away form individuals and onto small teams, 39Alpha will
foster intra-team environments which incentivize these integral concepts.

# Independent Finance
Teams and team members neither solicit nor compete for their own individual grant money. Stability
of funding is provided from the top down, with fundraising being carried out by dedicated
professionals employed by 39Alpha for this express purpose. This differs from the modern research
paradigm which requires individual researchers to spend their entire careers effectively operating
as personal contractors, working relatively short, necessarily overlapping contracts to which their
"employers" (universities, public/private research outfits) generally take more than 50% the value
of. Researchers working for 39Alpha are employees of 39Alpha, with salary and benefits in the same
manner as any private sector business. Their job is to conduct original research, not raise money.

# Open Source Tools
39Alpha teams will publish their tools open-source, together with their results. Much of modern
research science relies on large quantities of data generated, processed, handled, and interpreted
by custom software built by researchers. While it is standard practice for the eventual research
publications to go through a review process, it is far from standard to release the source code of
the software which generated the results to either the reviewers nor the scientific community at
large. This makes it extremely difficult, if not impossible, to confirm or reproduce the results of
others. Reproducibility is central and essential to the establishment of scientific discovery within
the larger scientific discourse. Beyond publishing in open-source peer reviewed journals, the teams
at 39Alpha will produce interactive versions of their publications on the 39Alpha site. These
versions will be interactive insofar as all figures and calculations will link to the original code
which generated them. In this way, all tools will be published alongside results, allowing others to
test the exact code used in a given study, potentially improve upon its form and function, and
employ and evolve the results themselves. This shift in practices is fundamental to the future
health of nearly all science steeped in analytical techniques, large data sets, and complex systems
analysis.

# Publish Failure
39Alpha teams will digitally publish approaches and efforts that failed to solve a given problem.
Modern science does not overtly publish failing efforts, as individual reputations and careers are
done no favors by doing so. Approaches which do not work are instead passed down culturally through
the experience of individual researchers who collaborate with one another. However these lessons and
the insights gained from failure are not published to the wider community. This sets the stage for
an odd reality. A researcher failing to find evidence of a novel idea within the literature has
either wandered into a brilliant realization, untested and unexplored, or has stumbled upon an
inevitable failure, encountered many times before by many others, to which there is no warning! As
modern publishing practices do not publish failures, researchers are doomed to repeat the same
mistakes as those who came before them, wasting time, effort, and resources. At 39Alpha, team
projects which are unsuccessful in either confirming or rejecting their original hypothesis due to
shortcomings in method, initial assumptions, false pretenses, etc., will nonetheless publish these
failures in the same digital interactive style as their successes. Though not published in
peer-reviewed journals like their successful counterparts, they will nonetheless be identified as
failures and made available to the larger scientific community, code and all.

# Serial Singular Focus
Teams will engage in only one research project at a time. A facet of modern research that detracts
heavily from productivity is the sheer number of projects and responsibilities present at any given
time for any given researcher. Focus is heavily divided, and progress on any one goal must come at
the expense of many others. Moreover, this division of focus and metal effort is different for every
member of a group attempting to solve a collective problem, as each is engaged in their own
individual endeavors, subject to the demands of their own individual grants, and involved in a
unique array of other collaborations. Teams at 39Alpha will engage in one major project at a time,
collectively decided upon by team members for an amount of time determined by the projects scope.

# Method Evolution
39Alpha teams operate at [levels 3 and 4]({{< relref giving-back.md >}}) simultaneous,
continuously evaluating how their science is being done. The operational method followed by 39Alpha
research teams is designed and monitored by [social and organization psychologists]({{< relref
social-psych.md >}}), keen on using 39Alpha teams as a test bed for original publications and
advancement in this field.  These physiologists monitor how teams communicate and collaborate
amongst themselves, how they collectively move on scientific goals and targets, and how the
disciplinary backgrounds and personalities of individual team members affects creativity,
productivity, and original discovery.
