---
title: Carbon-Bearing Mineral State-Space
description: Mapping the variable-space of carbon-bearing minerals onto Earth's aqueous environs.
applicability: 3
risk: 3
reward: 5
draft: true
---
Lets say that you wanted to bake a chocolate cake, and you want to attempt this with the ingredients
already in your kitchen. You sort through your pantry, pulling out all the ingredients that you'll
need. Alas, you find that you have almost everything, except, you are missing three eggs. You cannot
bake the cake!

The kitchen in this case is your environment, and it cannot support the baking (formation) of a
chocolate cake. You can think of this kitchen as having a **distance** from the chocolate cake, and
that distance is measured in eggs. That is, if you added three eggs to the kitchen it would support
the formation of the chocolate cake.

This concept of a system (the kitchen in this case), and a distance of the system from some desired
outcome (the baking of the cake), is central to many problems in science. Distances are not simply
measured in feet, or miles, but can be most anything. In this case, eggs!

In this way, the project described to the right is measuring the distance of different water-based
environments (lakes, streams, ship bilges, whatever it may be) from their inclination to precipitate
(form) minerals which contain carbon. Mineral precipitation, such as when calcium carbonate builds up 
on your shower head, is a common feature of water-based systems. In the case of carbon, precipitation
of minerals that contain carbon can offer a way to remove it from the atmosphere, and hence our
interest here.

The distance measure that is typically used in chemistry is in terms of energy. However we cannot
add pure energy as a component in a system in the same way that you can add eggs to you kitchen. We
can however change other aspects of a system, which affect the 'energetic state' of the system.

For example, at times we can change the temperature and pressure of a fluid, but for the most part
we can add components to a system. These are like the ingredients in the cake. Therefore, adding an
egg to your kitchen to bring it closer to making a cake, is like adding dissolved iron to a pond, to
bring it closer to precipitating a mineral called siderite.

This is where the analogy gets weird. The kitchens and their ingredients have a static (unchanging)
relationship to the cake. If I add one egg to my kitchen, I am no longer three eggs short of the
cake, but just two. Imagine however, that when you add one egg, you are no longer short just two
eggs, but are now also half a cup of flour short. This is how chemical systems work in the
environment. They are not static landscapes, but they are 'dynamic' landscapes. Everything affects
everything else when it comes to the stability of a mineral. Need more calcium in the fluid to
precipitate a mineral? Well adding more calcium can change a very important feature called the pH,
which affects the stability of the mineral you are interested in precipitating.

This project is focused on finding ALL compositional deviations that might be experienced by a large
range of water-based systems, including temperature and pressure, to motivate the precipitation of
carbon-bearing minerals in those systems with the complication that, we have to take into account
this dynamic behavior when we consider how a system will have to change to support the precipitation
of a given mineral.

Another important concept in science that might seem strange to non-scientists is that we can study
things in theory without actually realizing their existence in the physical world. IE, we can study
what is possible and imagine worlds where those possibilities are realized, whether they are or not.

In this case, we can learn something from common features of all likely environments, and their
relationship to each of our minerals of interest. This would be like imagining all possible kitchens
and their collective relationship to the chocolate cake.

Sitting in your kitchen, you imagine that, of all the kitchens that are in your city (thats a lot of
kitchens) that all will contain different quantities of a unique set of ingredients. Therefore, they
will all have a unique relationship to the chocolate cake. We would say that such a dataset had
important information in its structure. Maybe the majority of kitchens that fall short of the cake
are missing coca powder as it is generally a rarer ingredient. Maybe you find that, if flour is
missing, then milk is over abundant, and so on.

Important information exists in the collective relationships between the environments (kitchens),
their distances from the cake, and the ways in which they would have to be altered to bring the
kitchen-cake distance to zero.

Such a dataset, viewed in its entirety, could point you in the right direction if you are interested
in adding the fewest possible ingredients to the fewest number of kitchens to get the largest number
of chocolate cakes.

**This** is what we plan to do with water-based environments and carbon-bearing minerals.  Of all the
water-based systems that are likely to exist near the surface of the Earth (where carbon
precipitation may be beneficial), there exists a unique set of relationships to the precipitation of
carbon-bearing minerals, and a unique combination of alterations that would have to take place to
bring the environment-mineral distance to zero. Which environments would have to be altered the
least to affect the largest change in carbon?

<hr />

We wish to map the variable-space of $\ce{CO2}$ bearing mineral phases (calcite, aragonite,
siderite, etc.) as it relates to variation in all major element abundances, temperature, pressure,
$pH$, and $f_\ce{O2}$ of aqueous environments common to the Earth's surface.

Conventional environmental chemistry approaches in aqueous environments consider the precipitation
of mineral phases if their stability fields are intersected by a given fluid system being modeled as
it is driven to change in $T$, $P$, $f_\ce{O2}$ etc. via measures such as affinity or Gibbs free
energy. We wish to take a reverse approach, beginning instead with an aqueous system that clearly
falls within the stability field of a given carbon bearing mineral, before changing every
thermodynamic aspect that is contained within, moving about this state-space in small steps,
defining the full $n$-dimensional stability field of the given mineral.

Once this state-space has been filled (and it will be computationally dense as it is of a very high
dimension, with each element and thermodynamic state variable providing a dimension), locales on
Earth (lakes, rivers, streams, derived fluids in industry, mining, manufacturing etc.) that overlap
with this space or fall near to it can be pondered, effectively painting these environments back
onto the carbon-bearing minerals.

There is a lot to be be learned from the shape of this state space and the distance and direction to
any given environmental sample, as environments which are close to but not overlapping with it might
be easily altered such that they precipitate a given carbon phase. In this way a list of previously
unrealized carbon sinks might be discovered.
