---
layout: activities
title: Team 0 Goes to APRA-E
identifier: t0
members:
    - name: Cole Mathis
      website: https://colemathis.github.io
      github: https://github.com/colemathis
    - name: Tucker Ely
      github: https://github.com/tucker-ely
    - name: Douglas G. Moore
      website: https://dglmoore.com
      github: https://github.com/dglmoore
aliases:
    - /about/teams/t0/activities/arpa-e-2023-06-29
# date: 2023-06-29
---
39A Team 0 is developing novel research approaches in anticipation of ARPA-E’s hydrogen generation
initiative.

Team 0 is intersted in being a part of this initiative, lending their geochemical modeling prowess,
code development skills, creativeity, and outside-the-box thinking to an initiative aimed at
reducing the cost and carbon footprint of a clean, geology-derived energy source. Hydrogen.

When water interacts with naturally occuring mienrals in the environemnt, dihydrogen (H2) can be
generated. But only sometimes, and only under certian conditions. Some of these minerals and
conditions are known (citations). However, Team0 is designing a research porject that will
calucalate which naturally occurming mienrals generate H2 and under which conditions. 

Now dont worry if chemical jargon is not your thing. We offer two complementary descriptions of our
H2 research porposal below, a technical description for the chemistry nerds (thats us!), and a
conversational description for everyone else.

__covnersational description__          __technical description__

Similar work, recently published by Team0 member Tucker Ely (link) explored how Ultramafic rocks
beneath the Earth's seafloor do just this, quantifying how smooth changes in rock compsotions and
reaction conditions generate a vast diversity of H2 concentrations.

Geologic H2 generated in this way is clean, avoiding the enviornemtnal side effects of carbon-based
fossil feuls.

We are intersted in which combinations of mienrals are ideal for H2 generation, and determineing
those that are most effective at the lowest cost, and where those minerals might naturally occur

Now,

1. ideal for H2 generation
2. most inexpensive to harness
3. where souch conditions might be naturally located, emplced, and built.

Which minerals, under which conditions, yield H2 at what concentrations?

Talk about 3 novel approaches we are developing

Now Team0 has decided to get creative, developing novel approaches to H2 generation from geologic
sources. Team0 is actively looking for collaborators in their proposals to ARPA-E.

1.
2. 

end with call to action (contact us!)
