---
layout: activities
title: Team 0 Explores Hydrogen!
identifier: t0
members:
    - name: Cole Mathis
      email: cole@39alpharesearch.org
      website: https://colemathis.github.io
      scholar: MCCB-1gAAAAJ
      github: colemathis
    - name: Tucker Ely
      email: tucker@39alpharesearch.org
      scholar: yqYm8z8AAAAJ
      github: tucker-ely
    - name: Douglas G. Moore
      email: doug@39alpharesearch.org
      website: https://dglmoore.com
      scholar: 2MUS27QAAAAJ
      github: dglmoore
aliases:
    - /about/teams/t0/activities/arpa-e-2023-06-29
# date: 2023-06-29
---

At 39 Alpha, we are more than just geochemists, physicists, and software developers. We are a team.
Everyone on our team is a passionate problem solver, dedicated to making a meaningful impact on the
world by conducting original scientific research that has a positive impact on the environment, and
by extension, humanity. This is why 39 Alpha's [Team 0](/team) is developing novel research methods
to aid in the discovery of mineral-based hydrogen generation techniques.

When water interacts with rocks and minerals in the environment, dihydrogen ($\ce{H2}$) can be
generated. But only sometimes, and only under certain conditions. Some of these minerals and
conditions are known[^1]<sup>,</sup>[^2]. A recent publication on exactly this topic was published
by 39 Alpha team member Tucker Ely[^3], alongside coauthors, [James
Leong](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Ma72boEAAAAJ&hl=en), [Peter
Conovas](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Keg4MF4AAAAJ&hl=en), and [Everett
Shock](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=KDZS9jgAAAAJ&hl=en). Ultramafic rocks (combinations
of the olivine, orthopyroxene, and clinopyroxene) are known to generate $\ce{H2}$. Tucker's latest
work applies novel high throughput modeling techniques to explore how smooth variation in the
composition of ultramafic rocks causes severe variation $\ce{H2}$ generation.

![Snapshot of "Huge Variation in Hydrogen Generation During Seawater Alteration of Ultramafic Rocks"](H2_header.png)

Natural systems contain an incredible diversity of minerals, and these can be brought into contact
with an endless array of fluids across a range of temperatures, pressures, and compositions. [Team
0](/team) is exploring an expansion of the techniques used in Ely et al., 2022[^3] to discover
unrealized combinations of minerals (or mineral combinations) and fluid conditions that might yield
accessible hydrogen. Where might such systems be found in nature? Are they accessible? Can we
capture them at a sufficiently low cost and carbon footprint to motivate their extraction?

With our scientifically diverse skill set and extensive experience modeling geologic $\ce{H2}$
generation, we bring a unique perspective to any collaborative research project. We specialize in
providing high-throughput equilibrium and out-of-equilibrium geochemical models, enabling us to
guide engineers in discovering optimal water-rock system for $\ce{H2}$ generation. By analyzing and
interpreting chemical models that span large ranges of the dependent variable space, we can identify
the right conditions for hydrogen generation that should be tested further in laboratory settings,
and a process that would traditionally be time-consuming and expensive in the lab or the field.

If you are interested in funding [Team 0](/team) to explore this idea, or others like it, please
reach out to [us](mailto:39alpha@39alpharesearch.org).

[^1]: Klein, F., Tarnas, J. D., & Bach, W. (2020). Abiotic Sources of Molecular Hydrogen on Earth.
    _Elements_, **16(1)**, 19–24.
[doi:10.2138/gselements.16.1.19](https://pubs.geoscienceworld.org/msa/elements/article-abstract/16/1/19/582919/Abiotic-Sources-of-Molecular-Hydrogen-on-Earth?redirectedFrom=fulltext)

[^2]: Truche, L., McCollom, T. M., & Martinez, I. (2020). Hydrogen and Abiotic Hydrocarbons:
    Molecules that Change the World. _Elements_, **16(1)**, 13–18.
[doi:10.2138/gselements.16.1.13](https://pubs.geoscienceworld.org/msa/elements/article-abstract/16/1/13/582937/Hydrogen-and-Abiotic-Hydrocarbons-Molecules-that?redirectedFrom=fulltext)

[^3]: Ely, T. D., Leong, J. M., Canovas, P. A., & Shock, E. L. (2023). Huge Variation in H2
    Generation During Seawater Alteration of Ultramafic Rocks. _Geochemistry, Geophysics,
Geosystems_, **24(3)**.
[doi:10.1029/2022gc010658](https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2022GC010658)
